um can i uh ask uh andrey springbonus to
speak next
hello everybody and uh
it's very nice to be here thank you for
inviting me
uh i was just start with a very brief
story because
i have never known david in person uh
sadly and it was renee's call renee
gabriel called me up last year in venice
where i live
and
of course it was
already after the sad event
and
yeah suddenly my my relationship so to
say starts with with that event and it
starts with uh
and they're asking me to
help nika actually
and um
it was very strange because so i
i just went out on the street and i
tried to sms nikka and
and she didn't reply immediately because
she was busy and probably under shock
and then all of a sudden
on the street next to my house i just
happened to stumble
upon a person and i stopped and i heard
her speaking russian
[Music]
and and i thought this is nica and then
and then i just spoke to her and it was
her
with her kids sitting in one restaurant
next to my house and actually
yeah
quietly talking and so that's how we met
without even using the mobile phone sir
and after that of course i tried to help
with the translation so
yeah the meeting with david happened in
this very very strange
way
in in in some of the uh in some of the
offices where i was trying to to
translate and where i had to translate
something which
i would rather
avoid
[Music]
preferring not to know it at all or not
to have
[Music]
like it was not really a very pleasant
thing to translate so and ever after
even though we we stayed in touch of
course with nika and
i'm very grateful because she uh kind of
invited me to be part of this enormous
community here
and uh
and uh and um
so
we have participated as curators uh here
at the museum of care and um
and i hope we will be able to
collaborate and and um you know i never
known david in person i'm very happy
that we can contribute with
with our student with my students like
and and i personally have tried to
contribute as much as possible
throughout
this very bizarre year so um
yeah that's very
i'm very thankful and and i hope we'll
be able to continue this collaboration i
just uh
to to conclude wanted to to uh read a
very very phrase from
[Music]
david's book the anarchist anthology and
he's speaking about what is
revolutionary action
he's suggesting that revolutionary
action is any collective action which
rejects and therefore confronts
some form of power or domination and in
doing so
reconstitutes social relationships even
with the collectivity in that light
revolutionary action does not
necessarily have to aim to topple
governments attempts to create
autonomous communities in the face of
power
um
would uh for instance be almost by
definition revolutionary acts and
history shows us that the continual
accumulation of such acts can change
almost everything so for me uh rather
than to think an abstract about what
could be such acts like uh
my time and then my involvement in this
and
continuing to spread david's thought and
being involved in this
community and being able to contribute
is something quite concrete that i'm
doing
whenever i can and and i hope this can
also contribute to something that we can
sort of
uh
create
collectively and then through that
perhaps create a change
that
sooner or later
will
occur on a greater level thank you